+++
title = "A simplified atmospheric boundary layer model for an improved representation of air–sea interactions in eddying oceanic models: implementation and first evaluation in NEMO (4.0)"
date = 2021-06-15
draft = false
url_pdf = "pdf/gmd-14-543-2021.pdf"
# Tags and categories
# For example, use `tags = []` for no tags, or the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["WP5"]
categories = [3]

abstract = "A simplified model of the atmospheric boundary layer (ABL) of intermediate complexity between a bulk pa- rameterization and a three-dimensional atmospheric model is developed and integrated to the Nucleus for European Modelling of the Ocean (NEMO) general circulation model. An objective in the derivation of such a simplified model, called ABL1d, is to reach an apt representation in ocean-only nu- merical simulations of some of the key processes associated with air–sea interactions at the characteristic scales of the oceanic mesoscale. In this paper we describe the formula- tion of the ABL1d model and the strategy to constrain this model with large-scale atmospheric data available from re- analysis or real-time forecasts. A particular emphasis is on the appropriate choice and calibration of a turbulent clo- sure scheme for the atmospheric boundary layer. This is a key ingredient to properly represent the air–sea interaction processes of interest. We also provide a detailed descrip- tion of the NEMO-ABL1d coupling infrastructure and its computational efficiency. The resulting simplified model is then tested for several boundary-layer regimes relevant to ei- ther ocean–atmosphere or sea-ice–atmosphere coupling. The coupled system is also tested with a realistic 0.25◦ reso- lution global configuration. The numerical results are eval- uated using standard metrics from the literature to quan- tify the wind–sea-surface-temperature (a.k.a. thermal feed- back effect), wind–current (a.k.a. current feedback effect), and ABL–sea-ice couplings. With respect to these metrics, our results show very good agreement with observations and fully coupled ocean–atmosphere models for a computational overhead of about 9 % in terms of elapsed time compared to standard uncoupled simulations. This moderate overhead, largely due to I/O operations, leaves room for further im- provement to relax the assumption of horizontal homogene- ity behind ABL1d and thus to further improve the realism of the coupling while keeping the flexibility of ocean-only modeling."
# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = ""

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = ""
+++
