+++
title = "The Parcels v2.0 Lagrangian framework: new field interpolation schemes"
date = 2021-06-15
draft = false
url_pdf = "pdf/gmd-12-3571-2019.pdf"
# Tags and categories
# For example, use `tags = []` for no tags, or the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["WP8"]
categories = [3]

abstract = "With the increasing number of data produced by numerical ocean models, so increases the need for efficient tools to analyse these data. One of these tools is Lagrangian ocean analysis, where a set of virtual particles is released and their dynamics are integrated in time based on fields defin- ing the ocean state, including the hydrodynamics and bio- geochemistry if available. This popular methodology needs to adapt to the large variety of models producing these fields at different formats. This is precisely the aim of Parcels, a Lagrangian ocean analysis framework designed to combine (1) a wide flexi- bility to model particles of different natures and (2) an effi- cient implementation in accordance with modern computing infrastructure. In the new Parcels v2.0, we implement a set of interpolation schemes to read various types of discretized fields, from rectilinear to curvilinear grids in the horizontal direction, from z to s levels in the vertical direction and using grid staggering with the Arakawa A, B and C grids. In par- ticular, we develop a new interpolation scheme for a three- dimensional curvilinear C grid and analyse its properties. Parcels v2.0 capabilities, including a suite of meta-field objects, are then illustrated in a brief study of the distribution of floating microplastic in the northwest European continen- tal shelf and its sensitivity to various physical processes."

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = ""

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = ""
+++
